I'm from Indiana mr. Fenton you mr.
Chairman I just must clarify one one
thing here officer you said that you're
as far as your memory is concerned you
only heard one shot yes sir that's all
that I could recall it was a loud one
but that was on one eye and you were on
Houston Street at that time yes sir as
that the somewhere between Maine and
hail and then it's your testimony that
after you turned on Elm Street you heard
no for their shots
nothing did you see anything in the area
of the grassy knoll up and to the right
which would be of any interest to this
committee I did see officer Harkins
going up to grace you know going up the
grassy knoll toward the fence toward
their area Thank You mr. chairman time
of gentlemen's expired gentleman from
Connecticut mr. died what's John I think
I thought we were moving along I just
wanted to get clarification on these
photographs in your identification in
the first photograph here on the left
you identified the motorcycle closest to
us in the picture as being your
motorcycle and and you are on it how do
you identify yourself there the way I'm
[ __ ] know it just the way I read it was
last time you saw yourself sitting on a
motorcycle
[Music]
it's been a while but is there anything
that distinguishes the on the bike
itself that you are able to identify is
your solution you know how do you ride
it I mean when you say by the way you
ride you ride off to the side or what is
it about the letter about the picture
this thing I don't know how to explain
that it's just just castrate to sit on
it look at the last picture a gentleman
would continue to yield
how do you know that's you just the way
that I'm set
I wonder if you just care to describe
how are you sitting it just comes
natural to you
as only it should and you don't you
don't identify any other mark on that
last photograph as being yourself either
are the on the motorcycle no sure I
can't tell let me ask you this I had
asked the acoustical people earlier you
may have heard the question with regard
to the ability for a receiver at the
police department to accept transmittals
from two or more motorcycles or
transmitters at the same time is that
your understanding as well in other
words if you were in the Dallas Police
Department receiving calls if one person
were on that channel transmitting would
it be possible for other people to
transmit on that same channel at the
same time and also be received by the
headquarters yes it could be they could
accept on the same channel more than one
transmitter it would be hard to
determine what they were saying because
they would be overlapping but the voice
would come through there was a lot of
times we have the dispatcher to come
back see there's too many of you talking
at one time were you ever familiar with
any Clarion bells or church bells in the
vicinity of Dealey Plaza no ship has
ever been to your knowledge any of those
that kind of sound or noise no sure I
thank you thank you miss chairman time
of gentleman has expired any other
members seeking recognition
awesome McLean Utley mr. kargh well hi
mr. chinnough I'd like to ask a
clarifying question with respect to the
ones the committee members just asked
officer McLane when you were asked by
the committee a moment ago about how you
identify yourself in those two
photographs directing your attention
first to the left photograph number six
six eight would it be fair to state that
the motorcycle you have identified as
yourself is the first one behind the two
that were right next to the presidential
limousine issue and was that the
position in which you were riding in the
motorcade issue and then directing your
attention to number six seven one on the
right when you entered Dealey Plaza from
Maine on the Houston Street did you look
up ahead to see where the presidential
and vice presidential limousines work
issue what did you see
they were just turning the corner on to
Elm Street as I come around the corner
of Main Street so if the photographs
here then show that the officer in the
photograph enters Houston Street from
Maine at the time the presidential
limousine is turning from Maine onto Elm
that again would be you because of the
position in the motorcade issue thank
you no further questions Oscar McLane at
the conclusion of the witness's
testimony before this committee the
witness is entitled to five minutes
during the five minute period he can
explain or amplify or in any way comment
upon his testimony before this committee
I would extend to you five minutes for
that purpose if you so desire yes I
believe we put well covered most of it
on behalf of committee we certainly want
to thank you for both your cooperation
with the staff and with this committee
and for the testimony you've given us
here today thank you very much you're
excused in light of the fact that there
several additional witnesses to be heard
from by the committee chairs suggests
that we recess for lunch until 2:30 p.m.
we begin promptly at that time core
recess to 2:30
[Music]
so ends this session of the house
assassination committee which is holding
an all-day special hearing on new
scientific evidence and the killing of
President Kennedy in Dallas 15 years ago
evidence suggesting there were four
shots not three fired in the area of the
kennedy motorcade that tragic November
day the highlight of this first round
was the dramatic and detailed testimony
of two acoustical experts mark Weiss and
Ernest Ashkenazi who claimed their
testing revealed on 95 percent
probability that a fourth shot was fired
the test consisted of a complicated
analysis of the sounds from a police
radio microphone that was open at the
time of the shooting the sounds being
recorded on tape Weiss using charts and
diagrams gave us an elaborate analysis
of how he reached the conclusion of a
fourth bullet all involving the position
of the motorcycle from which the police
broadcast came the type of sound that
was recorded the echo the echoes that
produced electronic impulses even the
temperature at the time and the
architecture of the nearby buildings
from all of this Weiss said there was an
assumption made that a fourth shot was
fired from the grassy knoll along Dealey
Plaza where the motorcade was proceeding
there also was an assumption the shot
was fired at the motorcade although he
was not certain of the precise target in
other words he could draw no conclusion
that a fourth bullet actually did strike
President Kennedy as a matter of fact he
said that it could have landed in front
of the motorcade or behind the motorcade
some committee members plainly were not
convinced by this testimony but Weiss
and Ashkenazi
stuck stuck very strongly to their
interpretation finally just a few
moments ago we heard officer HB McLane
the Dallas police officer whose police
radio apparently was involved he told
his story of the events that day in
Dallas November 22nd 19
63 with me to discuss what we've heard
are are the gentlemen who've been
sitting in all day Karl Oglesby of the
private outside Study Group the
assassination information Bureau and
Jeremiah O'Leary who has spent many
years covering the Kennedy killing for
the Washington star gentlemen I think
whether one agrees or disagrees with the
expert testimony that was given this
morning it was certainly impressively
presented well it was impressively
presented but representative Bob Edgar
of Pennsylvania said that it appeared to
be a very sophisticated presentation of
a tested experiment and I overall
impression was that that there is
considerably more than little skepticism
by the six Democrats of one Republican
who were asking the questions today some
of the questions they raised were not to
my view satisfactorily answered how for
example through dr. Weiss Ashkenazi come
up with a 95 percent certainty up shot
number three from the grassy knoll when
dr. Barger who testified in September
concluded there was only a 50/50 chance
when the two new acoustical scientists
were using largers basic material didn't
they say that they had a chance to go
beyond through their experiments to go
beyond Barger's experimentation they did
but they also said that they made
assumptions at the outset a that the
first shot came from the that the shot
that interests them the most I came from
the grassy knoll and
that the motorcycle was within a very
finite area behind the president's car
were the sounds that we've been talking
about all day were were broadcast the
police headquarters have put on tape you
know Jerry mentions sorry I'm just going
to say Jerry mentions there is a higher
level of skepticism on the committees
part exhibited toward these witnesses
but surely that's appropriate isn't it
and hadn't we ought to say it's too bad
we didn't see some of the skepticism
with respect to some of the other
Witnesses on the on the no conspiracy
side of the case for example the
examination of dr. Humes which was so
mild and incomplete as virtually not to
have taken place
who is that honey dr. Humes James Humes
testified back in September on crucial
points of the medical testimony what he
was principal fine Humes was one of the
original examining pathologists and
Bethesda and his testimony as to what he
saw in the in the president's wounds has
always been at variance with what panels
have found who studied the evidence in
them in the National Archives how did
you regard this testimony this morning
well it's explosive there's no question
about it and as one who has been
associated with the criticism of the
warren commission finding for a long
time i can't help but feel some
satisfaction in it
I remember loud Sue's injunction that we
should conduct our triumphs as funerals
there's in a larger sense everything to
be are dead and frightened by and the
implications of this testimony home
we're still left with that basic fact
that nobody was seen running away from
the grassy knoll toting a rifle at the
time and some of the committee members
took note of that and I think jury at
when when we refer to the skepticism
that very much as a is a point that the
committee members have to live with part
of the skepticism may also be due to the
disclosure which is new to me that that
acoustical engineering is not an arcane
art these two witnesses both testified
that they use the elemental principles
of physics and geometry that they used
pieces of string that they use simple
simple calculators and
[Music]
that their process was not it sounds
complicated but the last analysis that
used the tools of high school children
well this winds up the first phase of
our coverage of this special hearing by
the house assassinations committee we'll
be back when the hearing resumes in
about 45 minutes at 2:30 p.m. Eastern
Time on most of these same PBS stations
I'm Paul too in Washington this program
was produced by WETA which is solely
responsible for its content funding for
this program was provided by the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting and
the Ford Foundation
[Music]
this is the old house caucus room on
Capitol Hill in Washington the scene of
a special hearing being held today by
the congressional committee
investigating the assassinations of
President John Kennedy and Martin Luther
King good afternoon I'm Paul Duke inside
the hearing room where in just a few
minutes we'll hear more testimony
relating to new scientific evidence in
the death of John Kennedy the evidence
is an outgrowth of some refined
acoustical tests of the sounds in Dallas
that fateful November day when Kennedy
was shot down
we heard witnesses say this morning that
four shots were fired not three experts
have repeatedly said over the past 15
years if true this would reinforce the
view of those who contend there was a
conspiracy in the killing that Lee
Harvey Oswald did not act alone that in
fact another gunman took part in the
assassination shooting from a grassy
knoll near the Kennedy motorcade as it
proceeded through Dealey Plaza in
downtown Dallas the Warren connect the
Warren Commission which conducted the
government's original investigation into
the slaying more than a decade ago
included that three shots were fired all
from the sixth floor of the Texas
schoolbook depository building but in
today's first round the men who have
come up with this new evidence mark
Weiss and Ernest Ashkenazi of Queens
College in New York said there was a 95
percent probability that a fourth shot
was fired well here with us to help us
help you understand what's going on we
have Carl Oglesby from the assassination
information Bureau a private research
group which has been looking into the
into the killings of John Kennedy and
Martin Luther King for a long time and
Jeremiah O'Leary who has long covered
the assassination story for the why
shouldn't stir it for the Washington
star quite clearly gentlemen what is
raised by the testimony this morning by
the two acoustic
experts is again the specter or the very
real possibility that there was some
kind of conspiracy yes indeed there's
actually only one way that the tape
could be authentic and it's apparent
results the real results the real
accounting of what happened and there
and there would still be no conspiracy
and that would be the case in which we
had two lone gunmen also at the two lone
gunmen at the same time in Dealey Plaza
where we have Oswald in his perch and
the other guy on the grassy knoll whose
name no one knows just by coincidence
coming together at that time but without
any awareness at each other and unless
we can accept that as a plausible theory
we've got a conspiracy
we've got immediate direct solid
concrete prima facie evidence that a
conspiracy was afoot even though there
is no smoking gun isn't word we have no
evidence that any policeman or anyone
else for that matter saw anyone running
away from the grassy knoll area well yet
even though the FBI has talked a great
deal with with people who were in that
area I think we should point out in the
tape to which you referred Carl was the
tape from the police radio the officer
who presumably used the radio on his
motorcycle at the time of the Kennedy
motorcade was one of the witnesses this
morning just on a connection of
The Smoking Gun and the possibilities of
people's having seen someone who might
have been the holder of The Smoking Gun
we have to remember that there is this
little interlude with the with a phony
Secret Service man that one of the
Dallas police officers ran into right
after the shooting he ran to the area
behind the grassy knoll and confronted
somebody who said he was The Secret
Service man it turned out there were no
Secret Service people there I think we
have to say Jerry that that a number of
members of the committee were quite
skeptical of the of the testimony that
was given this morning and whereas they
regarded it as as scientific and other
pure sense they didn't necessarily buy
it
[Music]
I couldn't begin to say how they will
come tonight or even if we will know the
results how would you say vote tonight I
think we should explain at the committee
after the open session today is going to
meet an executive session a session that
we cannot possibly cover but at that
time they apparently are going to
approve their conclusions whether they
will be reached we just don't know yes
we don't know if that will be very late
and we don't know if they'll release
their findings on both the Kennedy and
the King case early or late but it seems
to me that a the shot from the grassy
knoll is far from proven and secondly it
is still that large lead from two
different people
at the same time to proof of a
conspiracy which which as far as I know
after 15 years of covering the story
there is no there's no concrete proof
the closest thing to it is the
possibility that two men from two
different places might have fired shots
at the same time well speaking of proof
and and whether there was a conspiracy
I'd like to turn now to one of the
committee members because we were just
talking a moment ago and suggesting that
there was a certain skepticism it was
evident this morning with me as
congressman Richardson Pryor Democrat
from North Carolina who is the vice
chairman of the committee what is your
assessment of what we heard this morning
from the acoustical experts mr. Pryor
well I think that the committee was
skeptical as you say I was skeptical at
the outset about a new form of
scientific evidence which I hadn't heard
much about before I asked one question
which I hope to follow up dr. Barker
this afternoon as to whether this sort
of evidence has ever been admitted in a
courtroom for example well it's received
the legal in provider of respectability
I must say that testimony was quite
impressive to me in that it it seemed to
depend on simple principles of
mathematics common sense and not on any
interpretation of evidence so are
subjective factors so that I think their
evidence is pretty strong which would
tend to show two shooters I overheard
the last part of your conversation with
mr. Larry
if you have two people shooting and the
evidence on that there's not an awful
lot of evidence to corroborate that is
it but that the next question is does
that make it a conspiracy and I think
one of the interesting questions
involved here is it could be a a
conspiracy of two nuts to put it bluntly
rather than a conspiracy of a political
nature which we usually tend to think of
when we say conspiracy that is we think
were the Russians behind it or organized
crime or something in that so it doesn't
look like it's any sort of a political
conspiracy of that sort it's going to be
an interesting question of law if all
you have is this evidence scientific
evidence saying there was a second
shooter and nothing else to corroborate
is that enough evidence to prove a
conspiracy or to go to the jury on the
question and as a matter of the law it's
interesting that the state court law at
most states would say no that's not
enough evidence to go to the jury
because you're circumstantial evidence
has to be inconsistent with any other
hypothesis is the way they put it that
would be consistent with the it would
not be inconsistent with the hypothesis
of coincidence maybe it was just a
coincidence to two people fired at the
same time not a conspiracy but in the
federal courts it would go to the jury
let me ask you this question if indeed
you
feel that there is that that what we
heard this morning constitutes
insufficient evidence under the law what
does this do to the committee's
investigation because you are going to
meet later in the evening presumably at
that time you will vote and then make
your conclusions about your long
investigation into the death of
President Kennedy what are you now going
to do well first I would say that we
would probably follow the federal court
rule which would say this is enough
evidence from which you could infer a
conspiracy you will that is just my
guess but I would think that if you say
is it a coincidence so is it a
conspiracy common sense I think helps
load it on the side of a conspiracy it
seems an extraordinary coincidence that
two people were they are firing at the
same time of the president entirely
separate from each other but then that
gets into the question you ask if it is
a conspiracy who is involved and does
that change all of our report our report
originally had spent a great deal of
time on the subject of conspiracy and I
think on that we will be dealing with
the five major areas was that the Soviet
Union was Cuba was it organized crime
was at the CIA and FBI was at the
anti-castro of pro-castro Cuban group
and I think we're going to make
recommendations on that which we'll
probably leave probably will find most
of those large groups innocent of any
sort of complicity that might leave open
the narrow end of some individuals
within say organized crime within those
groups except I don't suppose the
findings of the acoustics experts so
long as you refer to it in your final
report but don't you also have the
prerogative sending the entire committee
report to the Justice Department for
follow-up at prosecution anyone who may
be found competent yes right and I would
think that all of the matters that we
haven't been able to resolve and
unfortunately this did come in at the
last minute we will refer it to probably
a particular aspect of the Justice
Department to follow up all the trouble
you and all that some of the evidence
that these scientists produced today is
based on what one
called test to analysis in New York
which is quite a distance removed from
from Dallas and where however close
facsimile of Dallas they selected that
the acoustical conditions might not have
been the same well I think that was
evidence not necessarily relating to the
time of echoes and that sort of thing at
Dallas but related to whether the
microphone and whether the motorcycle
would present certain curves because of
the windshield effect and so forth I
would have to agree with you that from
from the courtroom point of view a lot
of that match wouldn't be accepted as
being very exact seems to me they made
some assumptions one that there was a
shot the grassy knoll to that the
motorcycle was at a certain position and
starting with those two quantities as
chiseled in stone
they then everything else was made to
fit
that seemed to me to be to be slightly
troublesome to at least some of them
well I think this group started with
that assumption to make it fit because
dr. Parker had pointed in that general
direction and so they narrowed in on
them but I think the key question is
does it fit and does it only fit that
one particular set of circumstances
don't we come back to a fundamental
point congressman fryer that everything
we've heard today everything which the
committee has discovered learned during
this long investigation adds up to the
fact that there are more doubts than
ever now about what really did happen in
Dallas
well I think that has opened up the
conspiracy question which we thought
looked as if we were going to close so
in that sense it has opened some other
questions I think when you see our final
report we will have narrowed that down
quite a bit because we will excluded
possible involvement and conspiracies a
number of groups
thanks very much congressman Pryor well
let you go back do your work now I think
we're ready to go back all right well
this afternoon as congressman Pryor just
suggested a moment ago we will hear
another acoustical expert dr. James
Barger who had testified earlier during
another phase of the committee's
hearings and he had suggested that there
was a 50% possibility that a fourth
bullet was involved but the gavel has
been sounded and now we go back to
chairman Stokes chair recognizes
professor Blakey record that the
temperature that was employed in the
acoustics project was obtained from the
environmental data and information
service at the National Climatic center
Asheville North Carolina the temperature
at Love Field Dallas Texas on November
the 22nd 1963 was 63 degrees at noon and
67 degrees at 1:00 p.m. the skies were
clear this is of course the Weather
Service data which would be the most
accurate in addition mr. chairman I'd
like to have mark as JFK exhibit six
eight three and F six eight to two
photographs taken in Dealey Plaza
JFK exhibit six F after six eight three
is a photograph that includes the Texas
Book Depository which had on the top of
it a time and temperature sign and the
time shown on the sign is 12:40
you can see from the picture itself that
JFK's exhibit after 682 was taken
moments thereafter the same people are
in the picture and that indicates that
the temperature in Dealey Plaza at
approximately twelve forty was 66 it was
in this context that the staff
recommended to the acoustics people that
they take a temperature of 65 which
would seem to be approximately of within
the range of what would be appropriate
but I would ask that JFK exhibit after
six eighty two and after six eighty
three be incorporated in the record at
this point
without objection they may be entered to
the record at this point as previously
noted the committee originally retained
the services of bolt Beranek and Newman
to conduct its acoustics project dr.
James Barger the Chiefs the firm's chief
scientist and a man in charge of the
acoustical analysis at both Veronica
newman conducted the test for the
committee dr. Barger received a BS and
mechanical engineering from the
University of Michigan in 1957 and MS in
University of Connecticut in 1960 and an
AM in Applied Physics from Harvard
University in 1962 in 1964 he received a
PhD in Applied Physics from Harvard
University he has been a sonar project
officer at the u.s. Naval underwater of
sound laboratory a research assistant at
Harvard University's acoustical research
laboratory and senior scientist and
director of the physical science
division at bolt Beranek and Newman dr.
Barger is the author of many scientific
papers he has lectured in the field of
applied acoustics in the United States
and Canada and is currently a lecturer
on sound scattering and reverberations
with bolt Beranek and Newman
anti-submarine warfare course he's been
a National Science Foundation fellow and
he is currently a fellow of the
acoustical Society of America he's also
a member of the u.s. naval advisory
board or underwater sound reference
services in recent years dr. Barger has
worked as an analysis of sound
recordings in - quite celebrated cases
the shooting X situation at Kent State
University for which he studied recorded
sounds of gunfire and the White House
tapes in the Watergate case he helped
analyze the mysterious 18-minute gap as
a member of the panel headed by dr.
Richard bolt who is himself the head of
both veronik and Newman it would be
appropriate at this time mr. chairman to
recall dr. Barger committee recalls dr.
Barger dr. you have previously been
sworn in this in these hearings and I
would at this time admonish you still
under that that oath you understand that
of course yes I do
thank you chair recognizes counsel for
the committee mr. Jim wolf detail before
this committee in public session on
September 11 1978 and today I would
merely like to review briefly some of
the points you made during that
testimony and then ask you to comment
upon the testimony that we heard this
morning from professors Weiss and
Ashkenazi prior to that though in
reference to the work you did on the
Kent State tapes that professor Blakey
made reference to in his narration is it
correct that in your work on that tape
recording you determine both the
location of the shooters and the timing
of the shooters from an acoustical
analysis and that your determination of
both location and timing of shooters was
subsequently stipulated to be correct
and admitted
to evidence in a court case when were
you first approached by this committee
with the Dallas police dispatch tape I
believe it was in May of 1978 and am i
corrected after a view of that tape and
you're filtering of that tape and a
series of tests upon that tape you
eventually recommended to the committee
that it conduct a reenactment in Dallas
which would entail shooting at target
locations while you recorded those
sounds on microphones yes that's correct
and when was that reenactment conducted
for the committee August 20th I would
now ask mr. chairman that JFK exhibit
337 be displayed and inserted into the
record at this time
without objection and maybe it into the
record at this point
this exhibit is a diagram of Daley Plaza
and the microphone locations that were
used during the reenactment test
tonsillar I'll ask you to briefly
explain what the numbers 1 2 3 & 4 are
on that exhibit yes numbers 1 2 3 & 4
which appear in the boxes here represent
the location of the sandbag targets that
were placed on the street as targets for
the gunfire and the numbers 1 through 12
that appear on the street what do those
numbers represent I believe there are
three sequences either yes there are
three sequences 1 through 12
each of these sequences represents the
position of 12 microphones that were
placed in those three groups of 12 to
receive the sound of the gunfire that
were fired and during that test firing
what were the two locations used to fire
weapons from
weapons were fired from the 6th floor
corner window southeast corner of the
Texas School Book Depository
and from behind the fence on the knoll
at this point and were weapons fired
from each location at each of the
targets that is correct
rifles from the Texas School Book
Depository were fired at each of the
four targets a rifle from the knoll was
fired at each of the four targets I'm
sorry at targets number two three and
five we did not fire a target one for
safety reasons a in addition a pistol
was fired from the null position here at
target location number three and during
those test firings you recorded through
those microphones the sounds of those
test firings that is correct mr.
chairman at this point I would like JFK
exhibit 367 to be displayed and inserted
into the record
this exhibit dr. bodger does it
represent as a result of your matching
the recordings you achieve during the
Dallas reenactment those recordings that
match the original Dallas police
dispatch tape with a correlation
coefficient of at least 0.5 I guess they
do I I wish at this time I could say a
few words about the stark simplicity of
the matching procedure that was used
surely if I may briefly to clarify this
exhibit since it came after three hours
of explanation in the lifetime there
were obtained at each of these
microphones the series of echoes that
were received by them when each of these
rifles was fired
and it was suggested the last time that
I spoke that these might be likened to
fingerprints and that's not just a bad
idea there is a pattern of sounds that
emanate from each microphone when each
rifle is fired that is unique and that
pattern is as if a fingerprint that
identifies two things uniquely the
location of the rifle and the location
of the receiver now obtained on the
Dallas police recording that we
discussed this morning were the sounds
of impulses segments segments of
impulses that looked like fingerprints -
they were badly smudged by the presence
of noise we sought to match the
fingerprints that we measured in our
reconstruction with the fingerprints
that had been recorded
perhaps by Officer McLean in 1963 and we
did that matching we did it in a
numerical way the numerical procedure
allowed us to score each match now we
had 432 different combinations of rifle
shots and microphones so he had 432
fingerprints as from 432 individuals and
we wish to see if any of those
individuals were on the tape recording
as recorded by officer mcclain perhaps
and so we matched each of the 400 to 32
fingerprints with each of the microphone
that is with each of six patterns of
them pulses that were on the Dallas tape
to see if any of the matched at all and
we had a scoring procedure every time
the match was
good that the score was higher than 0.5
we said that's a very likely match that
individual may exist at that place on
the tape and now I can explain about
this and when was that matching process
completed I thank you it turned out
there were twenty five hundred and
ninety two matches to achieve and each
one was somewhat difficult because of
the smudging of the fingerprints and in
so far or since the fingerprints were
only obtained on the 20th of August it
wasn't until the sixth of September that
each of the twenty five hundred and
ninety two comparisons had been made now
that was four days before the hearing
given that it takes one day to prepare
for one day's testimony we had three
days to wrestle with the fact that there
were in fact four possible matches
fingerprints identified in the Dallas
tape and at the time that I spoke on the
20th of August I indicated that of the
six segments on the Dallas police
recording that contained any echo any
impulse patterns at all in other words
potential fingerprints the first one
began at this time and we found no
scores matching with any of these test
shots higher than point five however a
short time later about a second and a
half later there was a series of sound
impulses on the Dallas tape which in
fact scored above my threshold of 0.5 to
be considered as a potential detection
of a fingerprint a fingerprint as a
rifle fired from a given place and
received at a give another place in the
case of the first time where we
indicated any shots may have been in
fact fired and contained on the Dallas
police recording we found that when the
rifle was located in the Texas
schoolbook depository and fire which is
here and fired at
target 1 which is here we passed our
threshold we got a score of matching a
fingerprint score that was higher than
0.5 for the microphone located in the
second array microphone 5 that's that
one right there dr. Bergeron JFK exhibit
337 I believe last time you testified on
September 11 you marked in colored
pencil with blue red green and black the
approximate correlations between the
location of the microphone that picked
up the impulse and the location of the
motorcycle if it were traveling in the
motorcade is that correct yes that's
correct and how precise are your
locations of the motorcycle of those
blue green red and black dots I won't
I'll try not to belabor this point but
at the time that this experiment was
designed we did not know whether the
motorcycle was in Dealey Plaza and we
didn't certainly know where along this
entire path it was and so it was
necessary to sample for fingerprints as
it were at every 18-foot interval the
process thus designed turned out to be
capable of locating in fact shots by the
fingerprint method that I've been
describing however it could not do it in
space any more accurately than the
distance between two adjacent
microphones in other words I could only
locate the possible location of that
motorcycle at each time that the
fingerprint was possibly found on the
Dallas tape to within 18 feet so for
example dr. Barger the blue dot that you
put on that diagram it's possible that
that blue dot in fact would be on the
other side of the location of that
microphone the blue dot that I put to
show the approximate location of the
motor
cycle at the time on the Dallas tape
that the first possible match was
determined I placed between microphone
five and six he could equally have well
been placed between microphones four and
five which would have put it there and
those four groupings that you have are
the four impulses on the Dallas police
dispatch tape that you identified during
the hearing in September as possibly
being representative of gunfire in Daley
Plaza is that correct that's correct I
subsequently indicated that there were
four other times on the Dallas police
tape at which our matching process had
had indicated the possibility of a shot
in other words they matched between the
test shots and the impulses on the tape
by this fingerprint process and these
and the location of the microphone that
was picking up these sounds on a Dallas
police tape in other words the location
of presumably officer MacLaine's
motorcycle could be positioned then as
being within 18 feet of the of the
microphone that indicated that's where
the match occurred and of course since
the subsequent shots were fired later on
in time I was able to indicate that the
motorcycle was approximately here at the
time of the first shot and here at the
time of the second and here the time of
the third if in fact it were to prove to
be a shot and here at the time of the
fourth does your predictions of the
locations of the motorcycle correspond
to the testimony given by officer McLain
this morning yes in judgment in my
judgment it certainly does the officer
was able to remember I was very pleased
to hear that when he was around the
corner from Maine on to Houston he could
see the presidential limousine
disappearing around the corner here from
Houston onto Elm a distance would be on
the order of a hundred and eighty feet
so he would been somewhere but around a
hundred and eighty feet perhaps a little
less from the presidential
motorcade at that time I mean from the
presidential limousine at that time now
the distance from where we think that he
was at the time of the first shot which
is here to the distance where the
presidential limousine was at the time
of the first shot is about somewhere
between 120 and 138 feet again this 18
feet uncertainty which is okay I just
said that the we have located with our
acoustic analysis the the the result
that the motorcycle was a hundred and
twenty to a hundred and thirty-eight
feet behind the limousine at the time of
the first shot which is right about here
officer MacLean remembers having been
about a hundred and eighty to sixty to
eighty feet behind at this time he would
have therefore had to close a little gap
you know had had to gain a bit on the
presidential limousine as he came down
Houston and then I'd be expected if the
presidential limousine was slowing as it
went around that of course naturally
happened in this accordion faction that
he described as the presidential
limousine slow to go around here he
would catch up with it and one of the
first points that I made when we were
analyzing the sounds of the tape from
that motorcycle was that its speed had
remained high until just before the
first shot was in fact heard detected
and of course he would have to slow at
that point to negotiate that corner
thank you may return to the witness
table dr. Barger
thank you at this point mr. Chairman I
would ask that we mark is JFK exhibit
680 a report that has been submitted to
the committee by mr. Anthony Pellicano
mr. Pellicano is an independent and
investigator who submitted a report to
the committee after dr. barges testimony
in September
mr. Pellicano has never worked for the
committee or been affiliated with the
committee in any
cassadee dr. Barker if you had an
opportunity to review the report
submitted by mr. Pellicano I have read
it I would like to read parts of this
report to you and ask you to comment
upon them
mr. Pellicano characterizes his work as
a deduction from your testimony applying
some independent investigation of his
own the first portion I'd like to read
is on page four I'll read the paragraph
and then ask you to comment to the first
significant finding involving the sound
of the motorcycle sirens on the channel
one tape if the motorcycle with the open
microphone had been with the motorcade
it would have been expected that the
siren sound would have started at full
volume and if the motorcycle had
continued with the motorcade would have
continued for the trip to Parkland
Hospital on the other hand if the
motorcycle had remained at Bailey Plaza
the sounds would have started at full
volume and the volume would have
decreased as the motorcade pulled away
the sounds of the siren on the tape
however seemed to increase peak and
decrease as if they were approaching
passing and leaving the open microphone
position while this observation is
admittedly somewhat subjective if true
it would indicate that the motorcycle
was not with the motorcade was at some
point along or near the route taken by
the motorcade on its way to Parkland
Hospital unquote could you comment upon
that place I can't remember all that but
while I was still focusing on what you
were saying the statement was made that
it would be expected that the motorcycle
radio that we have placed in the
motorcade would pick up the sound of the
siren on the Chiefs car that would
presumably have been turned on just
after the shooting I think I heard that
is that that's correct
the Chiefs car was in front of the
presidential limousine and would have
been at this time at the underpass or
just beyond a distance of at least 300
feet from the position of the motorcycle
as we have placed it now the sound of a
motor of a siren 300 feet away from a
running motorcycle with as much
background noise as there was in the
plaza at that time would not have been
audible in other words I would disagree
with the assumption that it could be
heard a little simple arithmetic
indicates since the source level of
sirens is around 120 decibels and the
transmission loss from that particular
chief of police car to the motorcycle
would have to be at least 40 decibels
the sound pressure level of the siren at
the position of the motorcycle could not
have exceeded about 80 decibels but we
have seen that the insensitive direction
of the motorcycle microphone it being a
directional microphone and not being
sensitive to sounds from the front was
pointed at the Chiefs car and so that
received sound level of 80 decibels
would be considerably less than the
ambient noise level and the microphone
at that time which was 90% decibels and
also would have been coming in on the
insensitive axis of the microphone so I
don't believe that that assumption that
you would hear this siren is true it
wasn't a very short answer but so
therefore you would also disagree with
the statement that since the sound of
the sirens occurs somewhere in the
vicinity of 1233 two or three minutes
after the presume shots mr. pelikan OHS
deduction that therefore the motorcycle
could not have been in Daley Plaza you
would disagree with that yes I'd like
now to really
page 14 the submission to the committee
and ask you to comment upon this
statement
it concerns a question I believe
congressman Dodd and heart addressed
this morning about the ringing of a bell
that appears on the tape the report
states quote the sound of the Bell on
the channel one tape requires that a
bill be located within an acoustical
range of the open microphone there was
no such Bell in or near Daley Plaza well
it has not been identified as the same
Bell there was a bell in the tower of
the Lucas Baptist Church for 435
rosewood near the intersection of Lucas
and rosewood Dallas Texas located 0.6
miles from the position of the
designation of the three wheel
motorcycle on traffic control duty on
the Stemmons overpass over Industrial
Boulevard could you comment upon that
passage the sound of the Bell occurred a
few seconds after the time of the fourth
shot I don't remember exactly when it
indicates that there was a transmitter
on a motorcycle or perhaps in a squad
car or possibly also a walkie-talkie but
a transmitter that was transmitting a
little after the fourth shot that was
within sound range audible range of a
bell I agree completely with officer
MacLaine's statement that more than one
transmitter can be can share a receiver
at one time this is true whenever the
strength of the carriers of all of the
radios in question are within the
capture ratio of the receiver in their
intensity
thank you dr. Barger I now like to
address the testimony professors Weiss
and ashkenazi gave this committee this
morning have you had an opportunity to
review the work of professors Weiss and
ashkenazi yes I have
and what did you do to independently
review their work that was done for this
committee in the first place
shortly after my testimony at the
previous hearing I met with Professor
Weiss and mr. Ashkenazi and members of
the committee staff to discuss how best
we might reduce the uncertainty in the
results that we had obtained at that
time in particular relating to the
possibility of the third shot which is
listed in green and that X and that
exhibit and we contributed in that
discussion to the concept of an
analytical extension of our work which
is in fact the analytical extension that
they can carried out so we were familiar
with the parameters that they would need
to know and also with the procedure that
they intended to follow and I asked them
what parameters they were using and
found in each case that I agreed with
them in other words we checked their
procedures and the parameters that they
used in addition and perhaps most
importantly at the stage where they had
finished with all their strings as they
were illustrating this morning and had
identified the echo producing objects in
the plaza that caused the echoes at
positions near microphone for their that
where we found it might the shot may
have occurred and where it may have been
received we looked at those echo
producing objects for that location that
they found with their very accurate and
diligent procedure and made a judgement
about each one as to whether it would be
able to produce
of sufficient strength to be heard in
the rigged motorcycle microphone
considering the direction from which it
had to arrive at the motorcycle
microphone considering that we now know
the direction the microphone was
pointing at that time and we found that
the echo producing objects that they
identified were reasonable and would in
fact produce echoes of sufficient
strength to be seen or heard I should
say in your testimony on September 11th
addressing particularly the third
impulse in the Dallas police dispatch
tape you stated that the probability of
this being a shot from the grassy knoll
was 50/50 professor Weiss an Ashkenazi
today testimony you heard stated that
the probability of this being the shot
from the grassy knoll was 95%